yo what's up it's hard for me to make
this video brief because if I get into
rehearsing history of what happened
between myself and Joe vegan things get
long-winded quick on the other hand if I
make this too brief I'll sound like a
jerk I'm just heaping scorn and Joe
vegan at a time when he's obviously
going through a kind of personal crisis
to me it was obvious several weeks ago
that he was already going through a
personal crisis he made videos where he
talked about being light-hearted and
just having fun with it but in his voice
and in his eyes you could see for him
this was not like hearted at all he
sounded morose he sounded very upset he
sounded very concerned about the game he
was playing in its consequences which
includes the consequences of people like
me perhaps me more than anyone else
because I know I'm one of the people who
really talked to him in a very raw very
honest way about how emotionally
devastating some of his videos were for
me we'll talk I don't pretend to be a
tough guy but as I said in other context
I'm tougher than some of these guys it
is weird for me because part of what Joe
vegan is now saying about himself is
actually much more harsh than any
criticism I ever offered him I think
it's true in general he laments that he
has become part of the problem and in a
much more nuanced in sympathetic way
that was what I was trying to
communicate in because he did not intend
to be part of the problem he wanted to
be part of the solution I think he went
into this with good intentions and as he
has now said himself money and
popularity and pandering to his audience
led him down a path were instead he
ended up becoming part of the problem
with that being said he's still morally
superior to vegan cheetah he never did
to me any of the things she has done he
never did to me other things that for
instance Joe best has done I do not
think that Joe vegan has in a malicious
way sought to slander me or defame me I
do not think he ever bought into the
sport of slander which has become normal
in the vegan seen in the vegan drama
scene and the irony is I started a small
foundation I started a charity drive
called vegans against violence and
defamation we raised six thousand five
hundred dollars in one day to try to end
this culture of defamation within
veganism would it become normal will
gradually would it become neural and
instead what I've seen is while my court
case has gone ahead which is wonderful
it's doing
the right thing for the right reasons
for case ain't over yet everyone's
innocent til proven guilty I have no
reason to think the outcomes will be
positive but um instead what I've seen
is that that problem the violence and
defamation threats of violence
definition it's metastasized it spread
instead of being focused in one point
like a star it's become a constellation
in the same way that two years ago I
don't know over 100 channels tried to
imitate durianrider um to get the little
bit of money and fame that he had going
in the same way I don't know maybe a
hundred channels are now trying to
imitate cheetah to try to get that
little bit of money and fame and a lot
of people don't understand what it is
they're imitating but they don't fully
understand what is there imitating but
the the sport of slander this this
business of defamation uh you know being
used in this way sadly it's only become
more more common and again Joe without
having bad intentions I think step by
step like a boiling frog like a slippery
slope you know he really ended up being
part of the problem that he was trying
to address that he was trying to make a
if anything a positive contribution to
originally through through satire
because satire can be a positive
contribution can be an important
contribution to a culture and there was
a time I mean I can't go through the
whole list of what happened to me and
you're being but there was a time when I
really sent him positive feedback and I
did so out of sympathy because I imagine
if I was in his position I would want to
hear exactly the kind of positive
feedback i sent him I can remember for
example I sent him an email updating him
because I had a private conversation
with Jason Fazzino and Pizzi know and I
we both were laughing about some recent
jokes that Joe vegan him eight against
Pitino and against me and I just sent
you a vegan the Sherman's hey you know
just so you know me and Pacino we're
talking to that and we were both
laughing about your video like we're
both not offended i remember i mentioned
by contrast somebody else i know you
know who someone else I know through the
internet we're not good friends someone
else oh no who was offended by the same
video you know so it's just a short
message saying look I'm not offended not
worried about this so I did send the guy
positive support I did offer to support
his channel back when he had very few
viewers in fewer viewers than I had when
he was first starting up when he'd first
switch to the comedy format offered many
many times to have him come on skype
I've him do a podcast me
my channel my initial respect for him
was based on his honesty in dealing with
his own past as a former true believer
in during my turn freely as someone who
bought a bicycle and packed up the
bicycle and flew to Thailand to go
worship at the feet of the cult leader
and he really was honest and reflecting
on his cult-like attachment to that that
group that subculture within veganism
it's not cold lake for everybody but is
for some people and that he grew out of
that or he escaped from that mentality
um so that was my first reason for being
interested the guy I wanted to support
the guy I wanted to get to know him uh
now you know in various ways he did [ __ ]
up again I don't pretend to be anybody
I'm not I go to the gym my do push-ups I
lift weights I remember what Dom Bauer
used to flatter me by saying I was the
most macho guy on YouTube a few people
have alluded to my supposed ma Jonas but
in terms of why I'm on youtube at all
I'm very honest and raw in talking about
the emotional content of my life if I
wasn't I feel I would have nothing to
nothing to offer on camera and both on
youtube and in private communication
with Joe I was really honest with him
about the ways in which the game he was
playing was hurting me was damaging me
was negatively impacting my life and
then the question is what is he gonna do
from there so thanks for anyone who's in
the drama trade anyone who makes videos
remotely along those lines those are
questions you have to be prepared to
deal with and if you're not prepared to
deal with them what someone like me
comes brings them to you then you're
facing a fork in the road I guess he may
be recognized that fork in the road a
little bit too late I really offered Joe
friendship and support back when it
could help them and part of friendship
not every friendship has to be you know
close you don't have to talk about you
know your family life or your ex
girlfriend or anything you can have a
friendship that's more businesslike you
know there's no reason that Joe and I
would have been close friends but part
of friendship is exchange of information
and i have seen Joe get dragged into a
bunch of situations where he didn't know
what was going on he really just needed
to get the information from someone he
could trust and someone who would be
honest with him and that could have been
me I mean you know Joe believe these
ridiculous lies about the secret
facebook group if he could have just
talked to me about that I could have
cleared up his confusion and dry
what was really going on I was a member
of that secret Facebook group and
everything cheetah said about it was a
lie and she didn't knew it was a lie he
was just manufacturing dream out of
nothing but Joe obviously got very upset
about that and very involved that when
he shouldn't have if he could have
talked to someone like me or just me
then you know that would have saved him
a lot of agony and you know obviously
the whole thing with my legal case in
Thailand if he could have just talked to
me if he could have just accepted the
Olive Branch offered him again and again
where I said look if you want to know
what's happening I can show you more
documents I can talk you through what's
happening I can explain to you cuz most
of these legal documents they don't mean
anything if you're not a lawyer if
you're just looking at the back you
really need to have that conversation to
understand what's going on and why why
the court case took so long court cases
are long and boring I don't know what
impression you got from movies and
television but it's not allowed to say
but you know he had every opportunity to
do the right thing on that and he didn't
take it I mean at the end of the day
there was there was a time I hate that
phrase by the way I think I think that's
the first time i've used the phrase the
end of the day on youtube this is a
rushed video i got to get back to
studying Chinese I really don't have
time to make this video but I want to
because Joe's obviously going through a
kind of emotional crisis right now um
but at the end of the day um look you
know there was a time when I assumed I
would be doing a fundraiser to support
Joe's vision for you know running an
animal sanctuary what I thought I would
have him on the channel and we would
discuss the ethical issues and the
economic issues and his plants the
animal sanctuary and were ultimately i
mean i have a small audience but my
audience includes people who are really
hard core political vegan activist
people who really support the cause and
includes people who really would have
been important donors for his animal
sanctuary you could have a large
audience but if it's a bunch of
teenagers you know who aren't really
committed long-term those are not people
are going to support your sanctuary
long-term so I mean I think he could
have engaged with me in a really
productive dialogue about issues he
really cares about and I really care
about and he probably could have
explored and come to a better
understanding of those issues or at
least he could have become more practice
in explaining to an audience his
position on those issues about the
animal sanctuary and his plans and the
economics etc of it I could have been
very positive thing for him and me and
the people within my audience who choose
to support
vision was would have donated am on a
shallower level there was a time when I
was planning a big event in Thailand
that I invited Joe to and I invited be
Conchita to and Jason Pacino and vegan
lass was going to come a whole bunch of
vegan youtubers we're all going to come
be in the same place in the same time in
Thailand and I would have done a
fundraiser for Joe everyone knows Joe
doesn't have a lot of money I also
believe it or not don't have an autumn I
despite the rumors that I'm a
millionaire or that I work for the CIA I
don't have a lot of money so I really
could have imagined doing a fundraiser
where we say look can we try to raise a
thousand dollars to pay for Joe's Joe
and his wife to have this airplane
ticket so they can come to this event in
Thailand I would have just been
transparent with the audience this money
is not going to save the animals this
money is going to let Joe come to
Thailand and give them a checklist of
what he would do in Thailand whatever
he's going to visit an elephant park and
break down weeping when he sees how
badly treated the animals are and we're
gonna film on camera weeping in front of
the elephants and the elephants aren't
chains you know whatever positive stuff
like that I mean Joe he's British he
responded to my talking but that stuff
by saying like oh well I never asked you
for anything you know he made these
ridiculous videos he was always
mischaracterizing what I was doing a
channel was like oh you made a negative
video about me you know watch the actual
name what does that even mean a negative
whatever Joe did the wrong thing at
every single juncture in terms was
relationship with me do I resent that
not really I reach out positively to
vegans all the time who are scumbags and
who have really hurt me in a malicious
way as i mentioned recently i have even
reached out to vegan Ava who is a
terrible human being but she's vegan and
she wants to be a vegan activist to some
extent you try to appreciate people not
for who they are but for who they aspire
to be you try to appreciate people not
for the damage they've done in the past
but for the positive difference in the
world they aspire to make in the future
you try to have some generosity of
spirit with people I tried that with Joe
and in the future maybe I'll try that
again it definitely wouldn't be hard for
Joe to pick up the pieces and to create
a youtube channel or just ate forget
YouTube he can talk to me without
YouTube you don't need to have YouTube
to talk to the human beings it wouldn't
be hard for Joe to have a network of
people who support his positive
aspiration
and not because of his former notoriety
as a comedic figure as a satirist but
simply because they really believe in
the cause and on YouTube those are the
people you want to meet those the people
you want to know those the connections
you want to make long-term having 10,000
fans who don't give a [ __ ] about you who
don't give a [ __ ] about veganism is not
worth much I would rather have 200 fans
who are really down to die for the cause
who are really down to live for the
cause who are really trying to make
something positive happen for ecology
for ethics for the animals for the
future Joe vegans got a newborn kiddo I
know what that's like I know exactly
what it's like to raise a newborn baby
during its first year of life while
being a vegan on the internet I've been
there I've done that at that time back
when I had a blog before I even had a
YouTube channel I was out here trying to
make friends with trying to make
connections with other vegan parents
it's hard you know it's it's lonely I
don't know it's it's busy and crowded
and lonely all at the same time I can
relate to everything the guy is going
through and I hope he rumbles around uh
you know in his heart his soul in his
spirit and he comes up with a new way to
do something positive